[instrumental piano music playing]
[newscaster 1]
You are watching a special report
on the verdict of Jessica Kumala Wongso.
[camera shuttering]
It has been ten months
since the death
of Wayan Mirna Salihin at Cafe Olivier.
[newscaster 2] Today. the fate
of Jessica Kumala Wongso.
the only suspect in Mirna's murder.
will finally be decided.
It all began with a question.
"How did Mirna die?"
Was it a murder?
- [tense music]
- [reporter] Australian resident.
Jessica Wongso. has been charged
with the murder of Mirna Salihin.
Police alleged she poisoned her friend
by adding cyanide to her coffee.
[man 1] Jessica is like the devil.
Deep inside her. is something evil.
[camera shuttering]
[man 1] Describing it as the trial
of the century is accurate.
[siren wailing]
[man 2] This cyanide coffee case
can be compared to the OJ Simpson case.
I didn't really know why my case
got so big to be honest.
I'm not a celebrity. I'm not a politician.
This case had too many sides
and too many rumors.
There were rumors
of an alleged love triangle.
between Jessica. Mirna and her husband.
There were rumors
that it was with the mafia.
- [bottle popping]
- [gasping]
[newscaster 2] Two beautiful
young rich friends...
What makes one poison the other?
If she's not guilty. please set her free.
I'd never want to commit a sin
by letting a criminal get free.
I'm sure she's innocent.
I have to prove that is the truth.
[man 1] "Are you sure
Jessica killed Mirna?"
A million percent!
Guilty!
She's the killer.
[music ends]
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
[ballad music playing]
Here? Okay.
[producer] If it's just possible.
description.
if you're in the courtroom.
tell us what that court's like. right?
No. I should start maybe from the first
how I feel that Jessica is the killer.
[producer] I'm gonna start
about you first.
[Edi] Understand.
You have your gun on you. have you?
Yeah. why?
Just keep it away and outside.
No. it's okay.
It's locked.
[music resumes]
[Edi] I'm probably a strong person.
I'm almost 70 now.
And I'm still strong.
I'm still able to do hundreds of push-ups.
Thank God. I'm still blessed
with incredible strength.
My tiger blood.
[Edi] So. usually...
- [producer] Hey. point it down.
- [Edi] A gun like this...
[Edi] No. Already locked.
Ya.
[Edi] I'm used to being
in difficult situations.
Not everyone's like that.
When I first heard that Mirna died.
I just asked. "How did she die?"
She's a very healthy child.
Why did she have to die?
That's when I decided.
I will investigate and find the murderer.
[somber music playing]
Mirna.
Her nature and character
are similar to mine.
She could be tough.
If she disagrees. she'll lecture me.
"Why are you like this or like that?"
She was my sparring partner.
[music resumes]
Even when playing soccer.
she got into fights.
Fight...
Fight with... with boys!
Sandy was hit.
then Mirna came and punched the boy.
That's Mirna for you!
[chuckle in awe]
[birds chirping]
[Sandy] My name is Sandy.
And I'm Mirna's twin sister.
It's very different living here
than in Jakarta.
This is the countryside.
very far from the city.
My husband and I wanted to start
a new life here and find peace.
[phone beeps]
[Sandy] Mir. see here.
- One. two... [exclaims]
- [camera shuttering]
[music resumes]
I miss her a lot.
[laughs softly then clucking]
[clucking] When Mirna was buried.
I had a dream about her.
She was just sitting
and she was looking at her wedding dress.
but her face just looked sad.
and she was silent.
Mirna had a lot of goals.
Before this. she wanted to open a café.
But I guess...
[mumbles] That's not possible now.
[sighs]
We both really like coffee.
I think it's just ironic.
Mirna died because of that.
[music fades]
[suspenseful music playing]
MIRNA: WHERE ARE WE EATING?
JESSICA: DAMN OKAY HAHA
I'LL ORDER THAT. OKAY?
MIRNA: OH YES. OKAY!
[music ends]
- [coffee machine hissing]
- [coffee and milk gurgling]
[trendy music playing]
[manager] Olivier was a premium café.
[producer] Was it kind of the cool place
for people to meet?
Yeah. yeah.
[Devi] They came to hang out.
There was a bar too
where they could unwind.
[coffee gurgling]
- [sloshing]
- [drink gurgling]
Olivier had specific rules
and regulations for its customers
to enter the restaurant.
They had to be well-groomed. Very neat.
Most customers at Olivier
use luxury brands.
such as Gucci. Prada. and Louis Vuitton.
I was definitely very proud to work at...
- Café Olivier.
- [music ends]
[tense sound effect]
- [wind blowing]
- [honking noise]
[ominous music playing]
[Devi] On the day of the tragedy.
it was just a routine day.
A few of the tables
had already been filled.
[ticking clock noise]
[music resumes]
[Rangga] I started working
at 04:00 pm that day.
After I entered the bar.
the print receipt came out of the machine.
- the order was Vietnamese iced coffee.
- [clinking]
- Then I made it. the way I always do.
- [milk running]
Then I put it on the tray
to be picked up by the runner.
[ticking clock noise]
[music resumes]
[water gurgling]
JESSICA: I'VE ALREADY ORDERED
[ticking clock noise]
[music resumes]
[Devi] I saw three people at table 54.
They were young.
Then I saw that
they knew each other and seemed close.
[ticking clock noise]
[music ends]
[ice cube clinking gently]
[Rangga] After that...
a client began convulsing.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Devi] Mirna's condition was worrying
because she was convulsing.
And she was having difficulty breathing.
It really was a true emergency.
Jessica was to my right.
I was very suspicious of her because
she didn't want to assist her friend
even though she was by her side.
I thought. maybe
something odd was going on.
There was something wrong with...
[mumbles]
...Jessica.
For sure.
She asked.
"What did you put in... in her drinks?"
- [tense sound effect]
- [suspenseful music resumes]
At that point. I began to suspect
that something strange was going on
since Jessica's gestures
were somewhat defensive.
Then I realized
there was something in the coffee.
I tasted it myself.
and it turned out that the coffee
tasted and smelled really rotten.
[Rangga] When I saw the coffee's color.
it was way off. It looked like turmeric.
I sniffed the coffee closely.
and it had a sharp.
extremely glue-like smell.
It Irritated my nose.
I really panicked.
I checked all the ingredients.
but I didn't find anything wrong.
Only Jessica's coffee was like that.
[Devi. mumbles]
It felt serious at that moment.
[music ends]
My mental state tends to... drop
when I recall those things.
[somber music playing]
[Edi] In the hospital.
using my hand.
I give her oxygen from my mouth.
But she didn't move at all.
I said. "Mirna. why you die?"
"Better me."
"I can die. I'm old."
[sniffles]
[sighs]
[music resumes]
[Sandy] I can still remember.
It was as if her face
was saying. "Help me."
I tried... [mumbles]
...to wake her up.
I kept slapping her face.
I just couldn't understand
why she wouldn't wake up.
In the end. the doctors
and nurses came and told me.
Mirna was no longer alive.
[music fades]
- [wind whooshing]
- [suspenseful music playing]
[woman] That day.
I was supposed to meet Mirna.
but because I was working
till 06:00 that day.
I told Mirna I was going to be late.
JESSICA: MIRNA IS GONE
Then suddenly. a friend called me...
[inhales]
...and was crying.
"Ver. Mirna is gone. she's gone."
"What do you mean she's gone?
You just met her."
"I just messaged you
at 05:00 o'clock. you'd just arrived."
"Why is she suddenly gone?"
Up until today. since her funeral.
I haven't been able
to fully process her death.
to fully grasp what happened to her.
The thing is.
I'm not really thinking about...
- Jessica.
- It's not about her.
[honking noise]
[ominous music playing]
[Edi] At the hospital.
Jessica and Mirna's friends were there.
I asked Jessica.
"Jess. my daughter drank coffee
and died. What did you drink?"
She said. "Mineral water."
That was her first lie to me.
[clucking]
That was what made me suspect it was her.
I grew suspicious of her.
Jessica was ordering
two cocktails. one is Sazerac
and the other is... [mumbles]
...Old-Fashioned.
She was acting weird.
"Did Mirna die? Did Mirna die?"
"Was I the one who killed Mirna?"
That's what she said!
She tells a lot of lies.
She's a liar.
[tense sound effect]
[turn signal blaring]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Sandy] After leaving
Abdi Waluyo Hospital.
we headed to the funeral home.
Suddenly. the police arrived.
They told us she might have been poisoned.
An autopsy had to be done.
Her mom Santi. said.
"Don't let them touch Mirna's body."
If this is in fact a suspicious death.
and there won't be an autopsy...
POLICE COMMISSIONER KRISHNA MURTI
...then the police aren't going to be able
to properly investigate.
[Edi] Mister Krishna Murti came to us.
He didn't say much. except.
"If we didn't want an autopsy.
we'd never unmask the killer."
So. we gave in.
They took Mirna away
to perform the autopsy.
[tense sound effect]
[intense suspenseful music playing]
[Edi] We had the funeral the next day.
In the morning.
I received a call from the police.
[music stops]
"Your child's been poisoned!"
[music resumes]
[newscaster 3] The police have already
ID'd a suspect who poisoned Mirna
by mixing cyanide in her coffee.
[music more intense]
[newscaster 2] The autopsy report states
that Mirna's stomach's contained cyanide.
Wow. cyanide poisoning.
Somebody really wanted to kill her.
They really wanted to kill her.
- [music ends]
- [drips]
[mysterious music playing]
I remember where I was when I heard
about the case for the first time.
I heard about it
while I was sitting on the floor of the
Bureau of General Criminal Investigation.
All the reporters
from the various media outlets
would gather there to wait for news.
The first piece of information concerned
a murder by poisoning.
An invitation to catch up
over a cup of coffee
was never supposed to be so deadly.
[music ends]
Sadly to say. there's always.
like. a murder case here now and then.
You could ask me today.
and I could tell you
about two murder cases
that made the national news.
I remember hearing about it.
And taking it in as just another case.
But when it was revealed
that the victim was Mirna Salihin.
who had recently married.
it started to become clear
that this was an interesting case.
WHO POISONED MIRNA?
MIRNA'S FATHER QUESTIONED FOR NINE HOURS
Secondly. it came to light
that Mirna Salihin had been poisoned.
The first question was.
"Wow. cyanide. where do you get it from?
How does it get sold?"
[dramatic music playing]
There was a lot of speculation
on social media.
This 'cyanide case' was making... headlines.
It went viral because of cyanide.
EBRICK: WATCH OUT FOR CYANIDE HAHA
Cyanide's intriguing.
especially during wartime.
They'll ingest it to avoid being caught.
- [music ends]
- [gulps]
[orchestral music playing]
[narrator] What is cyanide?
Because cyanide is extremely lethal.
it is also very difficult to get.
It is found in nature.
in small trace amounts. in almonds.
apples and cassava.
Cyanide is one of the ten most
poisonous substances on the Earth.
Cyanide is related to cytochrome oxidase
which prevents the body's cells
from receiving or absorbing
the oxygen they need to sustain life.
Unused oxygen stored in the body
floods into your bloodstream.
turning your complexion
a cherry red color.
Vital organs that are deprived
of oxygen start to fail.
The effects of the excess oxygen
and organ damage could end up resulting
in convulsions. coma. and death.
[music ends]
[tense sound effect]
[tense music playing]
[reporter 2] The police
are doing everything they can
to figure out who poisoned Mirna.
Investigations into the crime scene.
reconstructions.
and witness interviews have all been done.
We were shocked to find out
that the suspect
was actually her close friend.
She bought the coffee
and my daughter is dead.
Who are you referring to. Sir?
I'm sure you know. everyone knows!
Who else? The devil?
Devil or what?
[music resumes]
Jessica Wongso
was a close friend of Mirna's.
They went to school together in Australia.
They graduated together.
Then Mirna returned home.
while she stayed.
I hadn't gone...
to Indonesia in four years.
so when I did finally arrive in Indonesia
I was very eager to meet
Mirna and my other friends.
Mirna and I met...
[mumbles]
...almost eight years ago
while studying in Australia.
We used to go out to eat
or to drink coffee in college.
We always bonded whenever we met.
We'd always be laughing
- and having a good time.
- [host] Okay.
During Mirna was in Australia.
having a coffee together. talking.
"Hey. Jessica. Do you have a boyfriend?"
"Yes. I have a boyfriend."
"But Mir. do you know?
We have a lot of problems."
Mirna told Jessica.
"Jess. why do you want to have
a boyfriend like that?"
Mirna might have treated Jessica harshly.
"Why are you such an idiot?
Why would you want someone like him?"
Jessica felt outraged when she heard that.
[Sandy] She's jealous of Mirna
because maybe Mirna had a good life.
And she has a good future ahead of her.
And maybe Jessica's life is crap.
[music fades]
[dramatic music playing]
[newscaster 4] Jessica Wongso
is back for more questioning
of the witness in Mirna's killing.
[reporter 3] Do you feel guilty or not?
[woman 2] I would tell my friends.
"This girl is really crazy."
[man 3] She's a very cruel person.
in my opinion.
[phone chimes]
- [phone chimes]
- [music ends]
If there is a perpetrator
that is still out there.
what is your message for them?
If you do something bad.
you will get caught.
So don't do evil things like that.
You will be arrested one day.
[music ends]
At that time. Jessica was being questioned
by a reporter from a TV station.
And as she proceeded
to reply to the news reporter.
she didn't maintain eye contact
with the reporter.
but instead. she looked up.
[gentle piano music playing]
I studied the paralinguistic method
in investigative techniques.
When someone looks up
while answering a question.
it's as if they're attempting
to conjure up a story.
According to my observations.
she may have done it.
The Olivier Café has nine CCTV cameras.
If we look at footage
from 04:00 pm that day.
she's seen getting there early.
and surveying the place.
In criminology terms.
it's called "making a portrait."
It implies that
this was a premeditated act.
[Devi] She was sitting
at this very large booth.
but why did she arrange
all of her shopping bags
neatly on the table?
The drinks were not visible.
only the paper bags could be seen.
In my opinion. that's very...
strange.
[music ends]
[tense sound effects]
- [camera clatters]
- [door knocks]
- [man 4] One by one.
- [woman 3] Your bag please.
Put it right there.
Do you have a plastic bag?
[man 5] Please.
[reporter 4] Investigators
from Polda Metro Jaya
have arrested Jessica Kumala Wongso
in connection to the death
of Wayan Mirna Salihin
at a hotel in Mangga Dua. North Jakarta.
[reporter 5] Police has charged her
with premeditated murder
carrying a minimum
jail sentence of 20 years
and a maximum of life in prison
or the death penalty.
- [reporter 6] How are you. Jessica?
- [man 6] Let her through.
[reporter 7] How are you. Jess?
Even while she was on her way to prison...
she was still smiling.
They found her at the hotel
with her luggage packed.
She was gonna run away.
[dramatic music playing]
There has never been a similar case
that has attracted
as much public attention as this one.
This cyanide coffee case
can be compared to the OJ Simpson case.
but OJ Simpson is a professional athlete.
And on top of that. he's a public figure.
So the question is.
what is it about this case
that has piqued the public's interest?
[music ends]
There's a story between them.
and this story saying
that Mirna and Jessica
had a strange or a difficult relationship.
[sneaky music playing]
Both families lived around Kelapa Gading.
which is quite affluent for Indonesia.
That also brought in a lot of assumptions
through social media about the case.
Those were the years
when Jakarta was the biggest
Twitter city. the noisiest.
Assumptions and conspiracy theories
were running wild.
I thought the speculation
about her being a lesbian
was just ridiculous.
There was a ton of confusing.
and... sensational chatter.
It was very overwhelming for me.
[music ends]
[producer] Let's break for lunch.
for half an hour please.
So everyone in Indonesia knows you then?
Yeah. everyone knows me.
Bali. Medan.
When I come. "Mr. Edi.
Mr. Darmawan..." Shaking hands...
Photo. photo...
"Eh. Mr. Dermawan!"
Thousands of people surrounded me.
[tense sounds effects]
[intense dramatic music playing]
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
[crowd noises]
JESSICA'S FIRST TRIAL
Jessica Wongso's preliminary trial
in alleged murder of Mirna Salihin
began at the Central Jakarta
District Court on Wednesday morning.
JESSICA'S FIRST TRIAL
[Edi] On the first day.
I was quite taken aback.
I expected it to be a routine trial.
but in reality it was crazy!
[clucking] People were so excited
that it was difficult for us to enter.
It was an amazing atmosphere.
Personally. I have never seen
a line as long as that one.
to enter a courthouse.
It was similar to how guests.
for example. line up to welcome
the newlyweds in Indonesia.
Instead. they were really waiting
in that long line.
just to enter a courtroom.
[prosecutor 1] It was like
they were shooting a movie.
The audience couldn't be seen
since the cameras were all at the front.
[Edi] The trial would be
on 24 hours a day.
across 14 TV stations in Indonesia.
And all of them focused on the case.
They were looking for me.
Every day following the trial.
I'd be interviewed.
When I arrived.
I was interviewed. I was exhausted.
But because I didn't want Jessica
to get away.
I kept fighting.
She's a liar!
She didn't move the glass?
The bags weren't there. She can't recall?
After I spoked outside the court.
and I clarified and explained everything.
It was then. that it became... crystal clear
that Jessica was the killer.
[Fristian] Almost unanimously
the public believed
that Jessica was guilty.
[man 7] Maybe it's business?
Jealousy?
That could've been her motive.
You poisoned someone!
The killing method shows
you had bad intentions.
[music ends]
[somber music playing]
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
[reporter 8] As you can see.
the Public Prosecutors
have entered the courtroom.
[Eddy] Jessica's case received
a lot of public attention.
Naturally the prosecutors need to be
professional and extra careful.
When they bring this case to trial.
with Jessica as the accused.
then they'll have the opportunity
to convince the judge.
that Jessica is guilty.
that she's the killer.
[music ends]
[Producer. clearing throat]
Okay. so this is very calm. fun.
not like a courtroom.
- Right? Ready. everyone?
- [laughs]
- [jazz music]
- We may all be prosecutors.
but our taste in food is different.
But we're united by food from Padang.
Because you can only find food
from Padang. and Soto Bogor there.
PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
[Shandy] We are like soldiers
who are on the front line.
If the verdict comes back.
and it's decided
that Jessica is not guilty.
then there will be a negative reputation
that will stick to the prosecution team
because we are the "poster child"
for the Jessica Kumala Wongso case.
GOOD-LOOKING PROSECUTOR
IN JESSICA'S TRIAL MARRIED TO A CELEBRITY
THE HANDSOME PROSECUTOR
IS NAMED SHANDY HANDIKA.
AND HE'S ALREADY MARRIED
HANDSOME PROSECUTOR'S WIFE
IS PUTERI INDONESIA CONTESTANT
[music ends]
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
We feel this is enough.
A single charge of premeditated murder.
Chapter 340.
So the first thing
that we need to prove is.
"What are the facts?"
- [suspenseful music playing]
- What's the perpetrator doing?
What is the victim doing?
Those are the facts that we'll reveal.
We didn't immediately accuse Jessica
of committing the crime.
We went through the sequence of events
from when the coffee
was made till the end.
when the coffee
became part of the evidence.
Who had touched the coffee?
Who was close to the coffee?
That was all recorded on the CCTV.
[Wahyu] From that angle.
if you look at the CCTV.
there were two moments
that were fairly strange.
The first was the shifting of the chair.
which blocked the view
of the CCTV camera from behind.
And then. she placed
the paper bag in front of the glass.
which then blocked
the CCTV camera from the front.
- [water gurgling]
- [music resumes]
[Shandy] Initially. we weren't sure
when the poison entered
the drink in question.
We put in requests
to the investigators on the case
to carry out toxicology examinations.
- [coffee gurgling]
- [music more intense]
The toxicologist conducted an experiment
and discovered a time frame
for when the poison
was poured into the coffee.
[toxicologist] At 16:29.
there were some activities.
not just for one second.
but a few seconds.
up until the coffee was moved
to the end of the table at 16:33.
During that time frame.
there was no one else in that vicinity.
That got us thinking.
[music ends]
[tense sound effect]
[dramatic music playing]
Hello.
[producer] Hi Jessica.
That is a good Aussie accent.
[Jessica. indistinct speaking]
[Jessica] I just couldn't understand
why this happened to me.
I was just having a holiday.
I was just calling my friends
to catch up for a coffee.
And from that point on.
it's been unbelievable.
Even I'm the main character.
I don't understand.
You know. it sucks.
It's been really difficult.
Like. it's just really hard
to stay sane every day.
If you ask about trauma.
yes. I'm very traumatic
by this event and by all the medias.
and how they print something
on the paper. and it was completely false.
They're just trying to. you know. like.
dig into my life. creating story...
"Oh. Jess did this
because blah blah blah."
"Oh. why didn't she just say sorry?"
"The evidence is quite clear."
What evidence?
Seems like they're enjoying it.
and making money out of it.
[music resumes]
During the trial. it was really difficult.
Hundreds of people.
just coming towards me.
with the camera and the flashes.
It was just really strange.
CHIEF JUDGE
And also the judges...
Everything that we brought into the table.
they just completely ignored it.
If the media wasn't really keen
on me at that time.
it would be different.
- [guard] Sorry. Jessica.
- Yeah?
[mumbles] I apologize.
Maybe...
[mumbling] This interview
has gone too far.
- [ominous music playing]
- [camera beeps]
[music fades]
The trial for Wayan Mirna Salihin's
homicide has begun.
and the accused. Jessica Kumala Wongso.
has entered the courtroom.
We'll broadcast live
from the Central Jakarta District Court.
[suspenseful music playing]
Surprisingly.
even from the beginning of the trial.
she remained very calm.
[Shandy] Calm...
[mumbles]
...and calculative.
I felt I was pressured
to give those answers.
What sort of pressure?
Pressure through words. just like
how you pressure people sometimes.
- What sort of pressure?
- [crowd cheering]
Try to answer.
If she wasn't guilty.
she would have been crying by now.
"Why me? Why me? I didn't kill Mirna.
Mirna is my best friend." Or whatever!
Nothing like that.
She's always relaxed.
Why?
Because she has Otto Hasibuan.
She thinks he's a top lawyer.
Let's call on Mister Otto Hasibuan!
[crowd cheering]
["Closer" playing]
[Edi] He seems so elegant!
[exclaims in awe]
He's a bit of a show-off.
so maybe he gets paid well?
- ["Closer" ends]
- [crowd cheering and applause]
[Tukul] What an amazing person he is!
[relaxing music playing]
[Otto] In my opinion.
I really don't think
I'm a celebrity lawyer.
[laughing]
I gave it a unique name.
Senayan Avenue by Ottolima.
I was born on the fifth day.
of the fifth month. in the year 1955.
at five in the morning.
Everything revolves
around the number five.
So that's why it's called Ottolima.
[bird squawking]
When I'm done playing.
I'll go sit over there.
have a glass of wine.
but often times
I actually think about Jessica.
Sometimes you forget.
but you meet people
and they say "Mr. Otto. Jessica."
That's why I'll never forget Jessica
and my work on her case.
- [clangs]
- [exclaims]
[birds chirping]
[frog croaking]
At that time. my family and I
were planning to go to Alaska.
[relaxing music resumes]
- [waves rumbling]
- I'd bought the tickets.
I booked the cruise.
And everything was ready to go.
[music ends]
[ballad music playing]
But suddenly. I was contacted by a lawyer.
He came to my office.
with Jessica's mother.
She said to me.
"Mr. Otto. please help us."
She felt she had been treated unfairly.
CLASS IIA PRISON
EAST JAKARTA
I told Jessica.
"I wanna work on your case.
However.
if along the way.
I end up determining that
you actually are guilty of these crimes.
I'll have the right to resign
from handling this case."
She said. "Okay. no problem."
When I worked on the case.
even my own family was against me.
There was even a pastor
who called me on my private cell phone.
and forbade me from handling this case.
Everyone hated me so much back then.
But I remained resolute.
Convinced she deserved to be defended.
At that time. almost 99%
of all the people in Indonesia.
believed Jessica was guilty.
So I felt there was
a tremendous amount of pressure.
Extremely difficult.
[music ends]
- [camera shuttering]
- [crowd noises]
[reporter 9] Jessica Wongso's trial
for the murder of Mirna Salihin
will resume shortly.
[dramatic music playing]
From the start. I was sure I'd win.
There was no reason. however small.
for the judges to deem her guilty.
There's no proof.
Where did the cyanide come from?
From her pocket?
From her pants? From her bag?
The prosecutors haven't explained this.
The defense made it very clear.
that they wanted hard evidence.
that Jessica poured the poison.
But we didn't believe
that we needed hard evidence.
We relied on circumstantial evidence.
The body of evidence that we had
was more than enough to prove.
that only Jessica
could have committed this crime.
[dramatic music more intense]
[gavel knocking]
CHIEF JUDGE
So when you think
of courtrooms in Indonesia.
don't think of Hollywood movies
in which the judge serves as a referee
and the jury determines
whether or not someone is guilty.
It doesn't work like that.
We don't have a jury system.
The three judges decide
as to whether someone is guilty or not.
They determine which evidence
can be used or not.
They determine
the ultimate sentence that will be given.
They have so much power
in the Indonesian Criminal Justice System.
UNITY IN DIVERSITY
When a matter is heard in court.
it can be said that the score.
is zero to zero on both sides.
On the One hand. the public prosecutor
must do everything he can
to convince the assembly of judges.
that the person
sitting in the accused's chair
is truly the killer.
On the other hand.
the lawyer will do everything he can
to state that the accused.
is not guilty of the crime
they've been charged with.
That. in the criminal justice system.
Is called the battle model.
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
The crucial key in this case
was "Death due to cyanide."
But as the trial started to move forward.
and the witnesses were being questioned.
we began to notice that
there were some inaccuracies
in the testimonies that were made.
[Slamet] So after collecting samples
for toxicological examinations.
we have ultimately concluded
that the victim's stomach
had gastric injuries
due to the presence
of corrosive substances.
I asked the expert. Doctor Slamet.
"Did you do an autopsy?"
[music ends]
We didn't do an autopsy.
[sneaky music playing]
Then I asked.
"Why didn't you do an autopsy?"
- Because the police requested me not to.
- Okay. the police had not to.
In the case files.
there was a letter from the police.
They had requested
that the hospital perform an autopsy.
CONDUCT EXTERNAL AND INVESTIGATIONS
FOR THE BODY AND ET REPERTUM VISUM
This is so weird.
That letter is the proof.
[Ardito] There was a great deal of respect
for the care of the deceased
in Indonesia back then.
When a thorough autopsy was required.
the dissection would begin with the head.
then the chest cavity.
and finally the stomach.
and you would need approval
from the deceased's parents.
The parents didn't give
permission for a full autopsy.
They had only given permission
for samples to be taken
for the toxicology examination.
The sample was taken...
[mumbles]
...from the stomach. Just a sample.
[music resumes]
- If the brain had been examined...
- Yes.
...would it be possible to determine
that death was caused by a stroke?
- It's possible...
- For example?
...but the symptoms indicate that.
- But it's conceivable?
- Yes. it is.
Yes.
Is the judge a shaman?
What ability does a judge have
to say that she died from cyanide?
If it's death due to natural causes.
it can't be considered a crime.
They started to see
something unusual about this case.
[music fades]
[man 8] In the name of God.
most Gracious and Merciful.
I hereby swear...
[Otto] The case was so complicated.
Because in this case.
there were so many experts
presented by the prosecutor.
With all the experts
that the prosecution had.
we were able to prepare
our own experts
to testify and challenge them.
[suspenseful music playing]
[newscaster 5] The expert witness
that has been presented
is Djadja Surya Atmaja.
Djadja is a forensic pathologist.
and is recognized
as Indonesia's first DNA doctor.
Throughout the investigation.
everyone was led to hate Jessica
and to believe she was guilty.
My daughter said to me.
"Dad. why do you wanna be involved
in a case like this?"
"Do you know you have a lot of haters?"
So I said. the netizens
can defend whoever they want.
But because I speak the truth.
I don't care about all that.
- That's it.
- [music ends]
If you don't check all the organs.
you can't determine the cause of death.
That's forensics dogma.
The situation
was actually tense at that point.
The prosecution was stunned.
Because I should have been called
as an expert witness for the prosecution.
but instead I was called by the defense.
We wouldn't know
whether she had a stroke. for example.
unless you examined her brain.
Would the lungs be infected
with certain diseases or not?
Not to mention the heart.
All of these
are potential causes of death.
As I watched. I thought that was strange.
At the beginning of the trial.
I thought that Jessica
had really done it.
But because I had doubts.
I kept watching the trial.
JESSICA CASE TRIAL
[Otto] The second crucial thing is.
when Mirna was examined
70 minutes after she died.
her stomach tested negative for cyanide.
If she tested negative for cyanide
after 70 minutes.
that means she has no cyanide in her body.
[Otto] Based on the results
of this investigation.
what's your conclusion?
The cause of death was not cyanide.
[suspenseful music playing]
Whoa. they were cheering.
It got loud and chaotic.
So that's why the judge knocked his gavel.
[camera shuttering]
The trial was getting too heated.
[Dale] There was a chance it wasn't her.
My conviction went up to 60%.
[Slamet] According to the findings
in the toxicology report.
the victim's stomach contained 0.2 mg
per liter.
of cyanide.
Then they claimed
there was 0.2 mg of cyanide in the sample.
That was found three days after she died.
Even if this 0.2 mg had been found.
it wouldn't have resulted in death.
The lethal dose.
or what's required to cause death.
is 176 mg.
I said the prosecutor's indictment
is irrelevant.
The existing evidence is irrelevant.
[music ends]
[whimsical music plays]
[producer] In your view.
one. was this a murder?
And two. if so. was Jessica guilty?
Wow. that's a...
[mumbles]
...difficult question to answer.
[laughing]
[mysterious music playing]
The facts that I got
made me doubt the data.
They also found
some estimations in the glass
which were unusually high.
7.400 mg.
Before this trial.
I conducted some experiments.
And I told them. scientifically.
[inhales]
in certain conditions.
it is possible for cyanide
to transform from a liquid.
and evaporate into a gas.
If that were to happen.
and in a closed space like that.
then the gas would be everywhere.
[Otto] If we were to put
this amount of cyanide in the coffee.
what would happen
to the people surrounding it?
Everyone there would faint.
[crowd cheering and applause]
[Otto] Can we test it?
- Don't. sir. it's dangerous.
- [crowd laughing]
They claimed this is the bottle
that contains cyanide.
- [bottle popping]
- [gasping]
I opened it. The judges
were angry. "Don't open it!"
I smelled it and nothing happened.
It means there's no cyanide in it.
I concluded. the presence of cyanide
in the glass is suspicious.
It must have been put in by someone else.
Right?
And there are strong signs
that this is the case.
[music resumes]
[producer] What did you do
with the coffee? What actually happened?
The glass that I had grabbed.
was actually still...
[mumbles] ...the same glass.
Then I wrapped it with plastic wrap
so that no one would
throw it away or touch it.
[producer] So it was you who wrapped
the coffee up and put it aside?
I took the coffee. wrapped it.
and I put it over there.
When the police arrived.
they took the coffee.
[Devi] Yeah.
[Otto] The glass examined
at the National Police Headquarters
had been altered several times.
It's no longer the original
that was taken from the crime scene.
Is there an official report
of when it was poured
from the glass into the bottle?
I don't remember that.
If you don't remember.
we'll ask the prosecutors via the judges.
[music resumes]
[prosecutor] We need
to search for it. Your Honor.
[prosecutor] It seems that it's not there
in the case files. It's not there.
So there's not. right?
That's all. Your Honor. Thank you.
Why must the evidence be sealed?
So that it will still be valid.
If they're able to open it.
what's the point of it being sealed?
[Dale] Based on the evidence.
we're unable to conclude
that she's guilty.
[Otto] How does a woman
who's just graduated from school.
just started working.
have the ability
or intention to kill someone
using cyanide?
What is the motive?
In every premeditated murder.
there must be a motive.
It's a common practice
everywhere. isn't it?
The motive was simply
because Jessica was advised by Mirna
not to date her boyfriend
that she had in Australia.
Then because of that she became angry
and intended to kill Mirna.
- That's impossible in my opinion.
- [music ends]
[ominous music playing]
Do we really need a motive
for this premeditated murder?
Many experts believe
that a motive isn't necessary.
A motive is important.
but it doesn't need to be proven.
Why? Because there's no mention
of motive in the penal code.
Article 340. Anyone who intentionally
and with prior forethought
takes another person's life
faces the possibility of being charged
with premeditated murder
and facing the capital penalty.
or life in prison.
Why should the prosecutors
be burdened with issues
that aren't required
by the penal code to be proven?
[Shandy] The motive
can only be known by the perpetrator.
And it's very hard if they don't confess.
There's a sense of deception here.
There may be certain parties
that would like for Jessica to be guilty.
Otherwise. why doesn't
everyone want to be fair?
Right?
[producer 2] So we know
that before the trial started...
[mumbles]
...you. Devi and Mr. Edi
- all came together and had a meeting.
- [agreeing]
What was the atmosphere for the meeting?
What was discussed?
[gasps]
I forgot.
[sneaky music playing]
That happened so long ago.
I'm afraid I might say the wrong things.
[laughs softly]
I guess we just met to discuss the case.
things like the importance
of being consistent.
telling the truth.
and not to being afraid.
The first time I met Mr. Edi Salihin.
he...
[mumbles]
He was a father with...
...a truly broken heart.
I could see...
he was sad and very angry.
[Rangga] Nobody would be able to accept
that happening to their daughter.
From Mr. Edi's perspective.
Jessica had to be arrested.
[Edi] I carried out my own investigation
because I was annoyed.
I was committed at the time
because I knew she was the murderer.
I was very committed!
If I'm not fighting for my daughter.
I'm not a good father.
[music ends]
[instrumental piano music playing]
[plastic bag clatters]
[Edi] Mir. I'm here Mir.
[clatters continues]
[sighs]
Dad... [clearing throat]
...has suffered a tremendous loss.
[clearing throat then sighing]
[sobbing and snorts]
Do you remember the trial. Mir?
Dad defended Mirna.
Alone. without a lawyer.
But I used everything I had.
my strength. my power to fight.
Dad had to do everything
he could to fight Otto.
They used money.
Dad did as well. but not that much.
They spent more.
Please forgive me. All my wrongdoings.
Dad's a bad guy too.
Even though I know it's wrong.
I've been with a lot of women.
The trial for the death
of Wayan Mirna Salihin
resumes at the Central Jakarta
District Court.
with the accused. Jessica Kumala Wongso.
Turns out a lot of strange things
occurred throughout this trial.
[Djaja] Before I testified.
there was a photo of Mirna
taken after her death.
that was circulating
and her face was blue.
A person who dies because of cyanide.
will have high levels of HbO2.
If the HbO2 levels are high.
it means it won't be blue but red.
Well. after I said that people
with cyanide poisoning have red faces.
the same photo circulated.
but her face was red now.
The "cherry red" color
they were looking for has been found.
This was before she was showered
at the funeral home.
The "cherry red" color developed.
I was the first doctor to see her corpse.
two hours after she died.
I saw that her eyes... her face was blue.
[judge] Her face is red here.
- Sir. we can't rely on that picture.
- It's on my desk. that's the problem.
[crowd laughing]
Yeah.
I said a photo could
be easily manipulated.
The color can be changed from red to blue.
Isn't it funny?
[tense sound effect]
[mouthing] What?
[Djaja] After I testified.
there was a commotion at the back.
It was chaotic.
there were Police everywhere.
I didn't know what was going on.
Later I found out there was someone
who got angry after my testimony.
Earlier this morning.
Mirna's father placed that photo
on the judges' and the prosecutors' table.
[mouthing]
- [prosecutor] The expert says...
- That evidence is not legitimate.
[man 9] Her father brought a gun.
After the trial.
he took out his gun.
He wanted to scare me.
To show me he could...
kill me or do something bad.
[dramatic music playing]
I've known Jessica since she was a child.
She never got into fights.
never caused trouble in school.
She was a normal child.
The trial had lasted 60 days.
Morning to night.
until two in the morning.
We'd skip meals.
We were chased by reporters.
I didn't go home for months.
I was living like a homeless person.
I was...
in pain and in the end. I fell sick.
Yeah.
Did she put poison
in the coffee? Can it be seen?
I have no regrets
in handling Jessica's case.
I'm always
optimistic to win.
Coverage continues
on the "Cyanide Coffee" case.
The trial entered its twentieth day.
Jessica Wongso's courtroom.
at that point. was like a...
football stadium.
- [dramatic music playing]
- It's a lie! She's a liar!
[Fristian] Each of them
had their own supporters.
There were some who backed Mirna
and others who backed Jessica.
For instance. they cheered
when the prosecutor asked a question
and they were pleased.
[prosecutor] Can you make it clearer?
[expert] Yes. Yes. Just like that.
And same happened when I asked something.
- [Otto] I can't see it.
- [expert] Really? I can see it.
Otto Hasibuan's skill in shifting
public opinion was extraordinary.
Jessica's supporters were increasing.
They truly felt. and proceeded
to often display on social media.
that Jessica was innocent.
If you ask me.
the evidence is still ambiguous.
Impossible. Completely impossible.
- [duck quacking]
- [dramatic music resumes]
[Otto] At the time.
I believed I was successful
in influencing the media and the public.
Honestly. in my opinion.
there can be no excuses
for us not winning.
We were 99% certain we'd win.
- [music ends]
- [Otto exclaims]
[newscaster 6]
The Cyanide Coffee trial is heating up.
The atmosphere
in the courtroom is very rowdy.
The arguments between the prosecutors
and the defense can no longer be avoided.
[judge] Everyone calm down.
Don't protest directly to me.
do it through the judges.
[judge] Keep quiet everyone!
[Ardito] The intensity
was getting stronger.
That became a risk and a challenge for us.
[Wahyu] We were tired and also emotional.
It lasted until late at night.
We alternated sleeping.
Some were asleep.
while others were still working.
Remember when we gathered
at Shandy's house?
[Shandy] The trial was becoming
more and more challenging
to manage as each day passed.
- [prosecutor] Objection. Your Honor.
- That date... Hold on a minute.
Objection. Your Honor.
he's drawing conclusions!
[suspenseful music playing]
A memorable day for me
with the day that I'd had an argument
with the legal advisor.
Okay then. now answer this.
Sir. did you bring the data
that you analyzed?
- No.
- You didn't bring it?
- Do you remember what you analyzed?
- It's over there.
- It's all there.
- I didn't ask the lawyer.
Every question that I asked
was interrupted by the defense.
So in the end. it eventually
devolved into a shouting match.
- Please respect me.
- Don't yell at my witness.
- Respect my witness!
- I will respect you if you respect me.
[Wahyu] There must be a debate.
So we were given a ring.
similar to a boxing ring.
And in here. you need to fight
according to the rules.
We believed the defense
wanted to discredit...
[mumbles] ...and attack the integrity
of our experts and our evidence.
We did the same thing
and that's allowed in a court of law.
To use a funny example.
if someone wanted to curse me.
I already had an antidote prepared.
Kind of in that way.
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
Your Honor. we invite
Mr. Beng Beng Ong from Australia.
He is a forensic pathologist.
One moment
I couldn't forget during the trial.
was when Beng Beng Ong
was treated unfairly.
When professor Beng Beng Ong
testified. He said. "No case."
I wouldn't suspect that it's cyanide.
I would consider other
causes including natural disease.
He had said that
what the experts in Indonesia
previously presented. was wrong.
We started researching right away.
Was what the expert presented true?
Then. how do we counter it?
Was the expert
legally permitted to testify?
When did you come to Indonesia?
[Otto] Your Honor.
that has no relation to the case.
Did you receive
any compensation to come here?
Objection. Your Honor.
that is very unethical.
In the end. we caused a "plot twist."
As a professional
who receives payment. under Article 102.
it is mandatory for you
to use a Limited Stay Visa.
We reported the expert
for immigration offenses.
[newscaster 7] Beng Beng Ong was deported
and is banned from entering Indonesia
for six months.
[Otto] The prosecutors
weren't being professional.
From a standpoint of justice and truth.
it's inappropriate. in my opinion.
[Wahyu] So. how do we trick
the opponent into being emotional?
We give them a taste
of their own medicine.
When someone gets emotional.
They lose their ability
to think logically.
That's just one part of the strategy.
- [microphone knocks]
- Thank you. Your Honor.
[snorts]
[inhales]
After that. I realized
we could no longer win.
because something wasn't right.
It was then that I knew
it was impossible to win.
[music ends]
[sneaky music playing]
The conviction rate
in Indonesia is very high. Why?
The police have enormous power.
The prosecutors have enormous power
which isn't balanced
compared to a lawyer.
The prosecutors' and police's power means
that the judges. are no longer referees.
They're no longer neutral.
Is there any evidence that the murder
was committed directly by Jessica Wongso?
The answer is no.
So where's the evidence
of Jessica's involvement?
Where's the evidence?
There are only allegations.
Only perception.
This is strange and bizarre.
It was said that
there was no direct evidence.
but how did the defense lose?
Because the defense
couldn't provide
any hard evidence or experts.
who could convince the judge
that his client wasn't a murderer.
That was actually the problem.
Very simple.
- [clatters]
- [crowd noise]
[Ardito] Additionally.
a psychologist and a psychiatrist
provided statements saying.
Jessica has an explosive
and compulsive personality.
[reporter 10] Can you explain
the cyanide in the drink?
No. I have no idea.
Did you put it there?
No. of course not. [laughs]
There's something odd about her.
Because she's always calm.
She's what's known
as a narcissistic psychopath.
She's a psychopath.
that means she's crazy.
And she is also narcissistic.
that's according to a forensic specialist.
Heartache.
yeah.
revenge. makes her feel empty.
We can see her narcissism emerge.
like a child.
"Please pay attention to me."
Just by looking at the...
physiognomy of facial expressions.
you can tell she's a vengeful person.
[judge] You said the defendant
is quick to respond
and very intense
when it comes to her emotions.
What do you mean by that?
Yeah. I know that from the shape of this.
[judge] Right.
There were experts who tried
to label the defendant as a bad person.
as a true criminal.
How? From judging the shape of the nose.
by looking at how her lips moved.
This is an obsolete theory.
- [whimsical music playing]
- [woman 4] Look at the nose.
long under there and slightly tilted.
She will be a good housewife.
look after things nicely
and keep everything in order.
We are all character readers.
up to a point.
And I think we are all
always guided by the eyes.
[Ronny] Her eyes don't sparkle at all.
Her eyes don't sparkle
like Julia Roberts. for example.
There's significance
to both sparkling and non-sparkling eyes.
[woman 4] We all mistrust
the shifty eye person.
The flickering. unsteady eye
shows nerve. irritability.
and very often independability.
Do not trust that person too far.
The prosecutor isn't proving
Jessica committed the crime of murder.
but what he's trying to do
is convince the judge
that Jessica may have killed someone.
Where did your theory
regarding all of this come from?
From empirical studies.
studies of movie stars
in America and so on.
Right. Your thoughts
and findings are fascinating!
[music ends]
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
[reporter 11] This is the atmosphere
from the trial
at Central Jakarta's District Court.
Where the trial for the murder case
of Wayan Mirna Salihin...
At that time. I felt the same as everyone.
afraid to be close to someone
who was accused
of killing another person using cyanide.
But then. there was a moment.
I got a small note
that was handed over to me
by Jessica's lawyer.
It turned out to be
a handwritten note from Jessica.
She just wrote.
"I really like your wardrobe."
[spluttering] Jessica
was looking at my clothes?
[gasps] Wow!
I wrote back. "By the way.
we're the same age."
I said we were both Libras.
We were three days apart.
and both have the dragon as our zodiac.
And I returned the paper to Jessica.
[inhales] During the trial break.
I had the opportunity to ask her.
"Jessica. can I interview you?"
[gentle instrumental music playing]
Finally she wanted to open up and talk.
But then I observed her.
[clucking]
[inhales] And I saw
a... very spoiled person.
Sometimes her mother
had to make sure she ate.
When a psychologist described her
as a structured person.
who can organize a plan "to a T."
That's something very contradictory.
Jessica's nothing like
what's been painted.
[music ends]
CENTRAL JAKARTA DISTRICT COURT
A psychologist
from the University of Indonesia.
Dewi Taviana Warida.
was summoned to testify
in Jessica Wongso's trial.
When I was in court that day.
the experience made me feel like
I was famous. like an actor.
or a star.
As soon as I arrived.
the lights started flashing.
I didn't know what was going on.
I was shocked.
[mumbles] The media
was really blowing it up.
When the cyanide coffee trial
had started to be broadcasted.
TV news ratings
were able to beat soap operas.
The theatrical aspect
was what attracted the public.
It was this...
black and white narrative.
portraying the deceased. Mirna.
as the innocent person.
And Jessica as the most evil person.
This case exploded
because people noticed Mirna's beauty.
Why was she killed?
Jessica's face is a bit weird.
A strange face.
[ominous music playing]
In my opinion. if you look
at Jessica's character and face.
it almost looks like she's...
holding onto or hiding something.
[man 10] Vengeance.
[woman 2] Her expression
tells me that she's...
mentally ill.
From a scientific point of view.
if for example.
a person is not beautiful or not handsome.
someone is thought to be evil.
their behavior is considered negative.
and everything they do becomes negative.
The beautiful one has to be saved
since society already views
the ugly one as guilty.
With that context.
it became almost like a soap opera.
[dramatic music playing]
[water splashing]
[woman 5] How do you unify this country?
Such a huge country.
Made up of 17.000 islands.
700 languages. 300 ethnic groups.
Television.
At that time. our country's leader
had lofty. ambitious goals.
Television would be the social glue.
It really grew in popularity.
Around the 1990s.
Jakarta gave birth to a new era.
that of the Sinetron.
- [dramatic music more intense]
- [dramatic sound effect]
From what we saw.
what got us addicted was...
the lifestyles of the rich.
Ill-mannered...
and egoistical.
The only statement I'll make
is I'm not answering any questions.
[Marcella] This is probably
what made this case
one of the most significant ones
in Indonesian history.
Welcome
to Sinetron Sianida.
[music ends]
[honking noise]
Sir. where does your favorite
red wine come from?
- Cockburn. Graham.
- Cockburn. okay.
- Places like that.
- I got you.
- I prefer it lighter.
- Please.
[splattering]
[producer] So. the prosecutor
talked to the lawyer
in the courtroom about Jessica
and what happened to her in Australia.
How important was that information?
[Edi] Very.
That information from Australia
was very important.
The trial for Mirna Salihin's murder
with defendant Jessica Wongso
is presenting
an Australian police witness.
[newscaster 8] It has been stated
that Jessica Kumala Wongso
was involved in 14 cases
with the Australian Police.
[Edi] It was Officer John Torres who said.
she had considered suicide.
[Edi] Then.
she crashed into the nursing home
and destroyed it.
[Edi] She even wanted to kill her boss.
She said.
"You damn shit. I will kill you!"
During that time. the defendant declared.
"If I wanted to kill someone.
I would know how to."
"I can get a pistol
and know what it takes."
[Timothy] Jessica Wongso. the accused.
underwent mental evaluations
at the hospital.
Antidepressant pills
were among the evidence gathered
usually used by patients
with mental health conditions.
The public thought that only
a person with a mental disorder
could do such an evil deed
in a public setting.
My biggest critique is that
we too easily and even arbitrarily used
the state of someone's mental health
as the grounds to judge them.
Jessica got into an accident. okay?
She allegedly got into a fight
with her boss.
Those are separate issues.
I'm going to be extreme.
the people who said she was a psychopath.
they made it up.
[ominous music playing]
[wind whooshing]
[Jessica] So. let's talk very briefly
about my time in Australia.
The place means a lot to me.
because most of my memories.
the very sweet ones
and the very bitter ones have been there.
All I can say
is that I was lost. immature.
and prioritized the wrong things.
All kinds of things they said about me
came down to one thing.
[glass breaking]
Me hurting myself.
Why would I fly across the ocean
to hurt my friend
who had nothing to do
with pretty much anything in my life?
In broad daylight. in a public place.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Otto] A week before
the trial's final day. she asked.
"What's my situation. Otto?
Will they let me free?"
I didn't know what to say.
[sighs]
[engine humming]
The Mirna Salihin's murder trial
at the Central Jakarta District Court
is nearing completion after four months.
The judges will decide the verdict
for the accused. Jessica Wongso.
[Edi] Otto knew.
He was shaking his head.
He knew he was going to lose.
[crowd cheering]
[suspenseful music resumes]
[judge] One.
The Defendant. Jessica Kumala.
JESSICA'S TRIAL VERDICT
alias Jessica Kumala Wongso. alias Jess
has been legally and convincingly
proven guilty of first degree murder.
committed with premeditation.
Two.
The Defendant will be sentenced
to imprisonment.
for a duration of 20 years
for the crimes committed.
That is the decision of the court.
[crowd applause]
This is the longest. the most explosive.
the most historical. ever.
Killing without evidence.
they put in jail 20 years.
I convinced the prosecutor and the judge.
That's how it ended. happy ending.
I win.
Thank you. Your Honor.
I don't accept the verdict.
In my opinion. it is unfair and biased.
Quite frankly. I was actually shaken.
But I knew I had to hold back my feelings.
Because the judges' decision...
JESSICA SENTENCED TO 20 YEARS IN PRISON
...is unfair. biased and definitely
not according to the law...
- [crowd cheering]
- [someone hissing]
...this trial has sounded
the death knell for justice.
As a result. we firmly announce
that we'll file an appeal.
[crowd cheering]
[crowd shouting]
When the court ruled that she was guilty...
[crowd and reporters shouting]
...she didn't cry much.
But once we carried her
to the back of the courthouse.
she actually burst into tears.
which no one knew.
We must keep sailing in the ark of life.
Will we be able to see what's ahead?
We went to the prison.
She didn't want to meet us.
She was screaming.
"I don't want to. I don't want to!"
Crazy right?
If she was innocent.
she would've yelled at me.
"Mr. Edi. I didn't kill Mirna.
Don't be like that. Let's go find out."
She didn't want to.
Not that she couldn't.
She's ashamed.
Because she comes out of the jail
also everybody will give her a stamp.
[exclaims] Killer.
Cold-blooded killer.
[music ends]
WOMEN'S CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
CLASS II A
[Jessica on the phone] It's almost
impossible to get access to film me.
I don't think that can happen.
[producer] We're sort of a bit outraged.
Because they've allowed people
to interview terrorists.
bank robbers. murderers.
[Jessica] It's really confusing.
Who am I. really?
I'm not even a public figure or something.
[producer] Yeah. we definitely
want to keep trying
to coordinate this for sure.
- [machine humming]
- [thudding]
[gentle music playing]
[Hidayat] I love to restore
old cars like this one.
I love it.
Since I was a kid. I have enjoyed it.
Now. the story behind this car.
it belonged to a friend of mine.
who sat through the entire trial.
He said to me.
"I bet Jessica will be released."
"I'm betting on a car."
But the verdict revealed
that Jessica wouldn't be released.
Well. a few days later. he said.
"Buddy. here are the car keys.
bring it home."
I said. "Are you crazy?
Is this really for me?"
He said. "A bet is a bet and I lost."
Now. the question is.
why can't she be interviewed?
I'm also wondering why.
She's not a terrorist.
even terrorists can be interviewed.
[dramatic music playing]
Imam Samudra. before he was executed.
he was interviewed.
Even Mr. Otto wondered
why she couldn't be interviewed.
[thuds]
[Otto] I sympathize a lot with Jessica.
Actually.
it's quite sad.
She was treated unfairly during the trial.
And now. it's the same thing.
When we got there. Jessica gave us this...
[music ends]
...her diary.
[somber music playing]
[Jessica] It's time to talk about the day
we were supposed to meet for coffee.
They find it suspicious
that I ordered the coffee
long before my friends arrived.
I didn't expect them
to arrive 40 minutes later.
JESSICA: WHAT TIME ARE YOU ARRIVE?
MIRNA: AROUND FOUR PLUS
They also find it suspicious
when I moved the paper bags around.
I was just simply bored.
- [door opens. squeaking]
- The footage of me entering
and exiting the café
was played over and over again.
The footage of the police entering
and exiting the café with the evidence
was said to be permanently deleted.
Is it my turn to be suspicious now?
I realized that the situation
has spiraled out of control
when we saw the news on TV.
Media started stalking our house.
We had to play hide and seek
to get into our own home.
A few days later. I was arrested.
I spent the night
lying on the cold hard floor
staring at blank space.
One thing for sure.
the world has crashed down on me.
[music ends]
[producer] Is there anything else
that you want to say now. or...
Is there anything else that you feel
we didn't ask or you want to say?
[somber music playing]
[Otto] Whether or not Jessica was framed.
I must say that I do believe that she was.
Because of the procedure
for examining evidence.
in addition to the way
that evidence was handled in court.
In my opinion.
they were very unreasonable.
CASE FILE
MURDER
Yeah. And every time during the trial.
that I...
made a breakthrough to prove otherwise.
the judges would always
find a way to cut me.
So what's really going on?
There are some people out there
who wish to punish her.
I could absolutely tell you more about it.
but perhaps not everything
should be said. right?
[laughing]
Not everything should be said.
Because I have to prove
things first. right?
Well. the evidence may be lacking.
but I know it happened.
[music ends]
[dramatic music playing]
[Reza] Until today.
this was the only case.
that a certain party
had actually called me.
and asked me to stop talking.
[bike engine roaring]
There was a certain party
who put money in my bag.
I assumed that the money was intended
to be their way of keeping me quiet
about the case.
I'm an ordinary person.
who has nothing to do with this case.
so why would that person give me money?
Therefore. I was concerned
that they'd also bribe
the law enforcement officers.
With an even bigger amount.
That was my concern.
This is going to sound controversial.
but in my view and based on research
from the Criminal Justice
Reform Institute.
it's possible that Jessica
was found guilty.
because someone
had to be blamed for the death.
So in that context.
the police and the prosecutor.
couldn't find any other suspect.
The authorities were embarrassed.
Because the case had blown up.
Now they're down with karma.
Some of the detectives
had their careers cut short.
So it's not a matter
of innocent or guilty.
but more importantly. it's how
the Indonesian criminal justice system
was able to deem someone guilty.
despite the lingering...
doubts.
If you hypothetically deem
Jessica's case as reasonable.
then I'll let your imagination run wild
about how other cases
are done in Indonesia.
If a case involves an ordinary person.
then I'm sure
they'll get the death penalty.
In Indonesia. no money. no justice.
No money. no justice!
[Erasmus] The Criminal Justice System
needs to be reformed.
What for? So that
our best possible reforms
and independent principles
can be realized.
And all Indonesians
have access to justice.
We need to reform
the criminal justice system.
Why? Because anyone can be next.
Anyone can be the next victim.
That's what I think.
- [indistinct speech]
- [crew applause]
Thank you!
[ominous music playing]
[Jessica] When I meet someone new.
I always wonder if they think
I'm a killer.
I honestly can't help but wonder
whether they believe
I killed Mirna
or not.
[music ends]
[closing music playing]
My name is Mikael Jasin.
I'm the Indonesian barista champion
and the World Barista
Champion finalist in 2019.
You've heard? This is actually
a pretty simple story.
Two friends going out for a coffee.
But one ends up dead.
This might surprise you.
but this is not the first time
coffee might have killed in Indonesia.
There's actually
a black history about coffee.
The first coffee seeds came here
in Indonesia through the Dutch.
They smuggled it out of Yemen
because they smelled
a grande opportunity to make some money.
The Dutch Foundation getting richer.
while there's a sweltering
Indonesian farmer doing the hard work.
Let me put it in the words
of the civil servants.
Edward Douwes. in his novel. Max Havelaar.
"Strangers came from the west.
who made themselves lords
of his native land."
"Forcing him to grow coffee
for pathetic wages."
Things have changed now.
But remember. every time you drink this.
as an Indonesian.
you deserve it.
[music ends]
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm